# Mathematics Core

Mathematics forms the foundation of all modern robotics and autonomous systems. Whether
designing control algorithms, training neural networks, estimating states, or planning
motion, mathematical reasoning provides the language and tools to model, predict, and
optimize system behavior.

This section introduces the key mathematical domains every roboticist should master. Each
topic builds toward an integrated understanding of how perception, decision-making, and
control can be formulated and solved rigorously.

## 1. Linear Algebra

Linear algebra is the backbone of modeling, estimation, and learning. Vectors and matrices
describe system states, coordinate transformations, and sensor models. Eigenvalues and
singular values capture the stability and structure of dynamics, while matrix
factorization underpins efficient numerical computation in everything from Kalman filters
to neural networks.

**Applications**: coordinate transformations, pose estimation, system identification, and
machine learning.

## 2. Probability and Information Theory

Robotics is inherently uncertain—sensors are noisy, environments are unpredictable, and
models are approximate. Probability theory provides the language for quantifying and
managing uncertainty, while information theory helps define how much can be learned from data.

**Applications**: Bayesian filtering (e.g., Kalman and particle filters), sensor fusion,
decision-making under uncertainty, and active perception.

## 3. Numerical Computation

Most mathematical models in robotics cannot be solved analytically. Numerical computation
bridges theory and implementation by providing reliable methods for solving equations,
optimizing parameters, and integrating differential equations on real hardware.

**Applications**: trajectory optimization, differential equation solvers for dynamics, and
real-time control computation.

## 4. Mechanics

Mechanics connects the abstract mathematics of motion to the physical world. It formalizes
how forces, torques, and constraints determine system behavior, from wheeled robots to
aerial and marine vehicles.

**Applications**: modeling rigid-body dynamics, deriving equations of motion, and designing
controllers that respect physical constraints.

## 5. Machine Learning Basics

Machine learning extends classical modeling with data-driven approaches. It allows robots
to learn perception, decision policies, and dynamic models directly from experience. The
mathematical basis—optimization, statistics, and linear algebra—links naturally to the
other topics in this section.

**Applications**: sensor interpretation, dynamics learning, reinforcement learning, and
adaptive control.

---

Together, these subfields provide the quantitative tools needed to reason about and design
intelligent robotic systems. The following chapters explore each topic in depth,
illustrating how theory translates into algorithms that sense, plan, and act in the real world.
